docs/TOOLS_SUBDOMAIN_SETUP.md, before:

# Tools Subdomain Setup Guide

This guide explains how the tools subdomain (`tools.zynra.studio`) is configured and how to set it up for your deployment.

## Overview

The send-message functionality and related tools are isolated to a separate subdomain for security purposes. This means:

- ✅ **Main domain** (`zynra.studio`): Public portfolio, services, projects, and quote form
- ✅ **Tools subdomain** (`tools.zynra.studio`): Client communication tools, contract generation, and internal APIs

## Architecture

The project uses **Next.js middleware** to implement domain-based routing within a single codebase. Both domains point to the same Vercel deployment, but middleware restricts access based on the requesting domain.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Vercel Deployment                  │
│                                                     │
│  ┌──────────────┐              ┌──────────────┐   │
│  │  Main Domain │              │ Tools Domain │   │
│  │ zynra.studio │              │ tools.zynra  │   │
│  │              │              │   .studio    │   │
│  └──────┬───────┘              └──────┬───────┘   │
│         │                             │            │
│         │        ┌────────────┐       │            │
│         └────────┤ Middleware ├───────┘            │
│                  └─────┬──────┘                    │
│                        │                           │
│         ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐            │
│         │              │              │            │
│    ┌────▼─────┐   ┌───▼────┐   ┌────▼─────┐      │
│    │ Public   │   │ Tools  │   │ Shared   │      │
│    │ Routes   │   │ Routes │   │ APIs     │      │
│    └──────────┘   └────────┘   └──────────┘      │
│                                                     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Restricted Routes

The following routes are **only accessible** on `tools.zynra.studio`:

### Pages
- `/send-message` - Client communication tool with rich text editor

### API Endpoints
- `/api/send-client-message` - Send custom emails to clients
- `/api/generate-contract` - Generate contract HTML
- `/api/generate-welcome-email` - Generate welcome email templates
- `/api/generate-rejection-email` - Generate rejection email templates
- `/api/generate-audit-pdf` - Generate audit report PDFs
- `/api/generate-audit-preview` - Preview audit reports
- `/api/generate-pdf` - General PDF generation

### Public Routes (Available on Both Domains)
- `/api/quote` - Quote request submission
- `/api/webhooks/notion` - Webhook receiver
- All other pages and routes

## Setup Instructions

### 1. DNS Configuration

Add a CNAME record in your DNS provider (e.g., Cloudflare, Namecheap):

```
Type:   CNAME
Name:   tools
Target: cname.vercel-dns.com
TTL:    Auto
```

Or if CNAME is not available, use A records pointing to Vercel IPs.

### 2. Vercel Domain Configuration

1. Go to your Vercel Dashboard
2. Select your project
3. Navigate to **Settings** → **Domains**
4. Click **Add Domain**
5. Enter: `tools.zynra.studio`
6. Click **Add**
7. Wait for SSL certificate provisioning (usually 1-5 minutes)

### 3. Environment Variables

Add the following environment variable in Vercel:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_TOOLS_URL=https://tools.zynra.studio
```

For local development:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_TOOLS_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

### 4. Deployment

The middleware is automatically deployed with your Next.js application. No additional configuration needed!

```bash
# Deploy to Vercel
vercel --prod
```

## Local Development

During local development, the middleware allows access to all routes regardless of domain. You can test the send-message functionality at:

```
http://localhost:3000/send-message
```

To test the production domain-based routing locally, you can:

1. **Use `localhost` (default)**: All routes are accessible
2. **Test with host override**: Use browser dev tools or curl with Host header

```bash
# Test blocking (simulates main domain)
curl -H "Host: zynra.studio" http://localhost:3000/send-message

# Test allowing (simulates tools subdomain)
curl -H "Host: tools.zynra.studio" http://localhost:3000/send-message
```

## Testing After Deployment

### 1. Verify Subdomain Accessibility

✅ **Should work:**
```bash
curl https://tools.zynra.studio/send-message
# Should return the send-message page HTML
```

❌ **Should be blocked:**
```bash
curl https://zynra.studio/send-message
# Should return 404
```

### 2. Test API Endpoints

✅ **Should work:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://tools.zynra.studio/api/send-client-message \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"to":"test@example.com","name":"Test","message":"Test message"}'
```

❌ **Should be blocked:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://zynra.studio/api/send-client-message \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"to":"test@example.com","name":"Test","message":"Test message"}'
# Should return 404
```

### 3. Verify Main Site Unaffected

```bash
curl https://zynra.studio
# Should work normally
```

## How It Works

### Middleware (`middleware.ts`)

```typescript
// Pseudo-code showing the logic
if (route is in TOOLS_ROUTES) {
  if (hostname includes 'tools.zynra.studio') {
    allow()
  } else {
    return 404
  }
} else {
  allow()
}
```

The middleware:
1. Checks if the requested path is a tools-only route
2. Verifies the request is coming from the tools subdomain
3. Blocks access with 404 if from main domain
4. Allows all requests from tools subdomain

### Benefits

1. ✅ **Single Codebase**: No code duplication
2. ✅ **Single Deployment**: One Vercel project for both domains
3. ✅ **Complete Isolation**: Tools inaccessible from main domain
4. ✅ **Cost Effective**: No additional hosting costs
5. ✅ **Easy Maintenance**: Update both domains simultaneously
6. ✅ **Better Security**: Hide internal tools from public

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: "404 Not Found" on tools subdomain

**Causes:**
- DNS not configured correctly
- Domain not added in Vercel
- SSL certificate still provisioning

**Solutions:**
1. Verify DNS CNAME record points to `cname.vercel-dns.com`
2. Check domain is added in Vercel Dashboard
3. Wait 5-10 minutes for DNS propagation
4. Check SSL certificate status in Vercel

### Issue: Tools accessible on main domain

**Causes:**
- Middleware not deployed
- Environment not using production build

**Solutions:**
1. Verify `middleware.ts` exists in project root
2. Redeploy to Vercel
3. Check middleware logs in Vercel dashboard

### Issue: Main site features broken

**Causes:**
- Public routes accidentally blocked by middleware

**Solutions:**
1. Verify TOOLS_ROUTES array only includes tools routes
2. Check middleware config matcher excludes static files
3. Test public endpoints directly

## Maintenance

### Adding New Tool Routes

To add a new route that should be tools-only:

1. Edit `middleware.ts`
2. Add route to `TOOLS_ROUTES` array:

```typescript
const TOOLS_ROUTES = [
  '/send-message',
  '/api/send-client-message',
  // Add new route here
  '/api/your-new-tool',
]
```

3. Deploy the changes

### Removing Subdomain Restriction

If you need to make a route public again:

1. Remove it from `TOOLS_ROUTES` array in `middleware.ts`
2. Deploy the changes

## Security Considerations

- ✅ Routes return 404 (not 403) to hide existence
- ✅ Middleware runs before route handlers (efficient)
- ✅ Local development remains convenient
- ⚠️ Consider adding authentication for extra security
- ⚠️ Monitor access logs in Vercel

## Additional Resources

- [Next.js Middleware Docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware)
- [Vercel Domain Configuration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/domains)
- [Client Message Template Usage](./CLIENT_MESSAGE_TEMPLATE_USAGE.md)

Commit message:

Refactor middleware to remove tools subdomain restrictions and update routing for portfolio access. Revise homepage metadata and dynamic sections to focus on early AI founders. Remove deprecated API routes for generating audit PDFs, contracts, and emails, streamlining the codebase. Update contact page to emphasize founder strategy calls.

docs/TOOLS_SUBDOMAIN_SETUP.md, after:

# Tools Subdomain Setup Guide

> **Note:** As of the portal UI update, tools (send-message, contract generation, etc.) have been **moved to the Admin Portal**. They are now available at **admin.zynra.studio/tools/send-message** and are restricted to staff users. The tools subdomain (`tools.zynra.studio`) is no longer used. This document is kept for historical reference.

This guide explains how the tools subdomain (`tools.zynra.studio`) was previously configured.

## Overview (Historical)

The send-message functionality and related tools were isolated to a separate subdomain for security purposes. They are now in the admin portal:

- ✅ **Main domain** (`zynra.studio`): Public portfolio, services, projects, and quote form
- ✅ **Admin portal** (`admin.zynra.studio/tools`): Client communication tools, contract generation, and internal APIs (staff only)

## Architecture

The project uses **Next.js middleware** to implement domain-based routing within a single codebase. Both domains point to the same Vercel deployment, but middleware restricts access based on the requesting domain.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Vercel Deployment                  │
│                                                     │
│  ┌──────────────┐              ┌──────────────┐   │
│  │  Main Domain │              │ Tools Domain │   │
│  │ zynra.studio │              │ tools.zynra  │   │
│  │              │              │   .studio    │   │
│  └──────┬───────┘              └──────┬───────┘   │
│         │                             │            │
│         │        ┌────────────┐       │            │
│         └────────┤ Middleware ├───────┘            │
│                  └─────┬──────┘                    │
│                        │                           │
│         ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐            │
│         │              │              │            │
│    ┌────▼─────┐   ┌───▼────┐   ┌────▼─────┐      │
│    │ Public   │   │ Tools  │   │ Shared   │      │
│    │ Routes   │   │ Routes │   │ APIs     │      │
│    └──────────┘   └────────┘   └──────────┘      │
│                                                     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Restricted Routes

The following routes are **only accessible** on `tools.zynra.studio`:

### Pages
- `/send-message` - Client communication tool with rich text editor

### API Endpoints
- `/api/send-client-message` - Send custom emails to clients
- `/api/generate-contract` - Generate contract HTML
- `/api/generate-welcome-email` - Generate welcome email templates
- `/api/generate-rejection-email` - Generate rejection email templates
- `/api/generate-audit-pdf` - Generate audit report PDFs
- `/api/generate-audit-preview` - Preview audit reports
- `/api/generate-pdf` - General PDF generation

### Public Routes (Available on Both Domains)
- `/api/quote` - Quote request submission
- `/api/webhooks/notion` - Webhook receiver
- All other pages and routes

## Setup Instructions

### 1. DNS Configuration

Add a CNAME record in your DNS provider (e.g., Cloudflare, Namecheap):

```
Type:   CNAME
Name:   tools
Target: cname.vercel-dns.com
TTL:    Auto
```

Or if CNAME is not available, use A records pointing to Vercel IPs.

### 2. Vercel Domain Configuration

1. Go to your Vercel Dashboard
2. Select your project
3. Navigate to **Settings** → **Domains**
4. Click **Add Domain**
5. Enter: `tools.zynra.studio`
6. Click **Add**
7. Wait for SSL certificate provisioning (usually 1-5 minutes)

### 3. Environment Variables

Add the following environment variable in Vercel:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_TOOLS_URL=https://tools.zynra.studio
```

For local development:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_TOOLS_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

### 4. Deployment

The middleware is automatically deployed with your Next.js application. No additional configuration needed!

```bash
# Deploy to Vercel
vercel --prod
```

## Local Development

During local development, the middleware allows access to all routes regardless of domain. You can test the send-message functionality at:

```
http://localhost:3000/send-message
```

To test the production domain-based routing locally, you can:

1. **Use `localhost` (default)**: All routes are accessible
2. **Test with host override**: Use browser dev tools or curl with Host header

```bash
# Test blocking (simulates main domain)
curl -H "Host: zynra.studio" http://localhost:3000/send-message

# Test allowing (simulates tools subdomain)
curl -H "Host: tools.zynra.studio" http://localhost:3000/send-message
```

## Testing After Deployment

### 1. Verify Subdomain Accessibility

✅ **Should work:**
```bash
curl https://tools.zynra.studio/send-message
# Should return the send-message page HTML
```

❌ **Should be blocked:**
```bash
curl https://zynra.studio/send-message
# Should return 404
```

### 2. Test API Endpoints

✅ **Should work:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://tools.zynra.studio/api/send-client-message \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"to":"test@example.com","name":"Test","message":"Test message"}'
```

❌ **Should be blocked:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://zynra.studio/api/send-client-message \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"to":"test@example.com","name":"Test","message":"Test message"}'
# Should return 404
```

### 3. Verify Main Site Unaffected

```bash
curl https://zynra.studio
# Should work normally
```

## How It Works

### Middleware (`middleware.ts`)

```typescript
// Pseudo-code showing the logic
if (route is in TOOLS_ROUTES) {
  if (hostname includes 'tools.zynra.studio') {
    allow()
  } else {
    return 404
  }
} else {
  allow()
}
```

The middleware:
1. Checks if the requested path is a tools-only route
2. Verifies the request is coming from the tools subdomain
3. Blocks access with 404 if from main domain
4. Allows all requests from tools subdomain

### Benefits

1. ✅ **Single Codebase**: No code duplication
2. ✅ **Single Deployment**: One Vercel project for both domains
3. ✅ **Complete Isolation**: Tools inaccessible from main domain
4. ✅ **Cost Effective**: No additional hosting costs
5. ✅ **Easy Maintenance**: Update both domains simultaneously
6. ✅ **Better Security**: Hide internal tools from public

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: "404 Not Found" on tools subdomain

**Causes:**
- DNS not configured correctly
- Domain not added in Vercel
- SSL certificate still provisioning

**Solutions:**
1. Verify DNS CNAME record points to `cname.vercel-dns.com`
2. Check domain is added in Vercel Dashboard
3. Wait 5-10 minutes for DNS propagation
4. Check SSL certificate status in Vercel

### Issue: Tools accessible on main domain

**Causes:**
- Middleware not deployed
- Environment not using production build

**Solutions:**
1. Verify `middleware.ts` exists in project root
2. Redeploy to Vercel
3. Check middleware logs in Vercel dashboard

### Issue: Main site features broken

**Causes:**
- Public routes accidentally blocked by middleware

**Solutions:**
1. Verify TOOLS_ROUTES array only includes tools routes
2. Check middleware config matcher excludes static files
3. Test public endpoints directly

## Maintenance

### Adding New Tool Routes

To add a new route that should be tools-only:

1. Edit `middleware.ts`
2. Add route to `TOOLS_ROUTES` array:

```typescript
const TOOLS_ROUTES = [
  '/send-message',
  '/api/send-client-message',
  // Add new route here
  '/api/your-new-tool',
]
```

3. Deploy the changes

### Removing Subdomain Restriction

If you need to make a route public again:

1. Remove it from `TOOLS_ROUTES` array in `middleware.ts`
2. Deploy the changes

## Security Considerations

- ✅ Routes return 404 (not 403) to hide existence
- ✅ Middleware runs before route handlers (efficient)
- ✅ Local development remains convenient
- ⚠️ Consider adding authentication for extra security
- ⚠️ Monitor access logs in Vercel

## Additional Resources

- [Next.js Middleware Docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware)
- [Vercel Domain Configuration](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/domains)
- [Client Message Template Usage](./CLIENT_MESSAGE_TEMPLATE_USAGE.md)
